= Binary Packages=

For Windows and Mac, application packages are available. This is the easiest way to run ComicTagger.

=== Windows ===

Download the installer .exe and run it.  

=== Mac OS X ===

Download the DMG file, open it, and drag the app onto your Desktop or Applications folder.

= Source =

The source package is much smaller, and if you only want to run ComicTagger as a command-line app, you may want to install this way.  

To run ComicTagger from the python source, you may need to install some pre-requisites:

  * Python 2.6 or 2.7
  * PyQt matching the Python version -- _(Only needed for GUI)_
  * PIL, the Python Imaging Library -- _(Only need for automated matching)_
  * Beautiful Soup 4

See below for some platform-specific details

If you are downloading manually, extract the source zip file.  Run the file called "comictagger.py".  

On certain systems, you have the option to use "pip" (or "easy_install") to install ComicTagger:

{{{
pip install comictagger
}}}


If you used pip, then "comictagger.py" should be in your path.  ( On Windows, probably "C:\Python\Scripts" )

== Mac OS X ==

Getting PyQt and PIL installed is probably easiest (although very slow) via brew - http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew/

Once you have brew installed:
{{{
brew install python pyqt pil pip
pip install beautifulsoup4
}}}


More TBD.

== Windows ==

  * Python - http://www.python.org/getit/releases/2.7.3/
  * PyQt - http://www.riverbankcomputing.com/software/pyqt/download
  * PIL - http://www.pythonware.com/products/pil/
  * Beautiful Soup - http://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/

== Linux ==
On the Ubuntu 12.10 all requirements should be available already.  On other systems, use the package manager such as apt-get or yum to install whatever is missing.

i.e.
{{{
sudo apt-get install python-qt4 python-imaging python-bs4
}}}